#summary Installation and configuration of the platform where gCCD will run.

= Introduction =

In order to compile the software you must install some libraries. This guide will show you  the needed libraries and explain how to install them.

= Image Magick =

To install Image Magick you must download the source code of version 6.4.0 from http://downloads.jmagick.org/ and decompress it:

 * *tar -xvzf ImageMagick-6.4.0-0.tar.gz

Enter the directory and execute configure:

 * *./configure*

Then just execute make as *root*:

 * *make install*

After it's done, you can verify that it's working by opening the image viewer:

 * *display*

Also you must add libMagick.so to the LD_LIBRARY_PATH enviroment variable:

 * *LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

= Jmagick =

Download the source code of version 6.4.0 from http://downloads.jmagick.org and decompress it:

 * *tar -xvzf jmagick-6.4.0-src.tar.gz

Enter the new directory and execute autoconf:

 * *autoconf*

Then configure:

 * *./configure*

To compile it, you must execute make:

 * *make all*

After it's done, install it with (as root):

 * *make install*

You must add jmagick-ver-.jar to the CLASSPATH enviroment variable:

 * *export CLASSPATH=/usr/lib/jmagick-6.4.0.jar:$CLASSPATH*

== Known problems ==

=== JAVA_HOME not found ===

If you get a "JAVA_HOME dirrectories not found" error when executing *./configure* then there is a problem with your Java JDK installation. You must download and install the Java JDK. After that you must make sure that the JAVA_HOME environment variable points to the directory where the JDK is installed:

 * *echo $JAVA_HOME*

If it's not, then add to your *.bashrc* the lines:

 * *export JAVA_HOME=_java_installation_path_*
 * *export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH*

Where you must replace *_java_installation_path_* with your path to the JDK e.g.: */usr/java/jdk1.6.0_19*. Then you must logout and login again or source your *.bashrc*:

 * *source .bashrc*

Then you can execute *./configure* again and follow the rest of the installation.

= CCFITS =

To install CCfits, you must download the rpm files available in the Downloads section of this site and install them:

 * *CCfits-1.7-1.fc6.i386.rpm*
 * *CCfits-devel-1.7-1.fc6.i386.rpm*

= ANDOR SDK =

The Andor SDK is needed to compile the ACS component part of the software.

Uncompress the TAR using:

 * *tar -xvzf andor.tar.gz*

Go to the new directory from a terminal and execute (as sudo):

 * *sudo ./install_andor*

Select you camera type from the list and wait for the script to finish.

= SBIG Linux Development Tools =

Todo