GOOS stands for "Generic Observatory Operation System".

The objective of this project is to create an integrated software/hardware platform to control telescopes and instruments and to transfer the captured data to a centralized storage. The software part of this system will be based on ALMA Common Software. This system has three main subsystems:

Generic Telescope Control System (gTCS)
This subsystem is the software responsible of controlling the telescopes. The aim is to support different telescope hardware architectures (MEADE, Celestron, etc.)

Generic Instrument Control System (gICS)
This subsystem is the software to operate the instruments that capture data from celestial objects during the observation process. In optical astronomy, the focus of our effort in this project, there are two main kinds of instruments: CCD cameras and spectrographs. To keep this project within a manageable scope, this version of gICS will focus on providing a generic interface to the most common operations of CCD cameras and to coordinate their operation with telescopes: exposure, dark, flat, cooling, startup, and shutdown. The system will be jointly developed and continuously integrated with gTCS.

Hardware and Data Transfer
This part of the system consists of developing a communication layer to provide a robust and fast communication infrastructure for gOOS. The main objectives are:

- Deployment of ad-hoc hardware to achieve reliable and high-speed communication of the whole distributed system.

- Development of a subsytem able to keep the communication between the instrument and a remote operation center under different failure scenarios.

- Development a subsystem supporting the fast transport of the data generated by the instrument to a remote analysis center.
The remote control and data transfer developments should be carried out on a working test system so a telescope will be needed.

This project was initially conceived as a joint work between three chilean universities (in alphabetic order)

- Universidad Católica del Norte (UCN). This university begun about one year ago to develop software with ACS. The most important projects in this area are hosted in this site.

- Universidad de Concepción (UdeC). 

- Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María (UTFSM). The ALMA-UTFSM group from this university was the first of the three to develop software with ACS, several years ago, and is currently running several projects in this area.